Prior to this, I led sales for a Techstars company For sale buyer and helped grow that company from a few from you know, early customers to early customers a really nice, meaningful portfolio of customers. We were selling into restaurants and so
We had a lot of dynamics at play. Selling corporate chains as well as small independents, as well as the franchisees in between that sort of acted like SMBs, but in reality had some corporate red tape that limited their buying.
But also, but also could catalyze enterprise buying and so yeah um I love talking.
With relation to relation with relation question-based selling. So I really I really have that sort of a preferred format when selling is really understanding the buyer I know it can be difficult. These people don't want to be on the phone with you. You're, you know.
Have to draw out questions. And so forming some form of a personal relationship, really being strategic in the angle And why this person should even make time on their busy calendar to speak with you as a CEO or go to market person for a startup.
Yeah, so that's a bit about me i'll I'll shut up so we can dive more into other drows and into the good stuff for today's session.
Sure. Nice to meet you or see you all again. My name is Eric. I have done all kinds of sales. Sales is kind of my… my thing, if you will. I like to joke that if I were a video game character, my sales bar would be maxed out and then everything else would just be like, okay.
So for me, my style of sales is always looking at it from the lens of helping people.
If you can't help the person that you're trying to sell to, they're not your ICP or you're a scummy or bad salesperson.
So for me, asking a lot of questions is definitely the way that I get to the answer. How do you make sure that the problem you solve is what you're selling and who you're selling it to?
A little bit about my background. I've worked mainly in CPG. I'm now working in an AI tech startup and I have my own sales consulting firm. So I help a lot of founders, both new and very, very tenured, help them with their value proposition, how they communicate value.
How they overcome objections. And I'd say the biggest thing that I see from a lot of founders, at least in the Bay Area space.
Is, and I'd say not only that, but a lot of top of mind you are all your domain experts. You are the subject matter experts of your field.
And communicating to the people that you're selling to, you're usually not talking to people who are as tenured or as specialized in what you do. And that makes it so it's sometimes very hard to communicate value.
So the way that I see a lot of founders who are able to get from zero to 100 very quickly is they start to look at who they're selling to from their perspective, as opposed to from their own perspective. And how would you talk to that person if you were that person? Or how would you communicate to yourself as a fifth grader before you ever even started learning about what you're into right now and communicating that way?
That's me.
Thank you. Burhan, I'll tap you next.
Cool. I guess you guys watched my demo day video, so I don't need to do an intro on myself or what I do.
Next thing was mistakes I see founders make always.
The 6cc founders make in any observations on your sales style Like, I just want to tap your current hiring plans.
Okay, cool.
Yeah, I mean, I believe in founder-led sales only. When we raised, our investors asked us a question, which is how much you want to allocate to hiring other sales employees. And I said none for the very long foreseeable future.
I think echoing what Eric said, it's really important to understand that you are the domain expert.
Likely be one of the only people who understand exactly what it is you do and how you're solving your customers problems.
And so there's no better person to sell than yourself. I mean, I've been selling since I was a little kid.
Sort of my first business when I was 13, selling broken phones to or broken phones that I fixed.
To other people. I was entitling broken films, I swear. And yeah, I mean, one and two promotions when I was in university, selling ball service to degenerate university students and then uh Now I sell… AI software for dental. And I mean, one thing has stayed true across the board within all of my sales experiences in that really where you find between
Do is not sell a product that you believe in, but flipping the script and understanding what I guess, pain point you're solving for the for the customer and selling that specific pain point solution instead.
Yeah, I'll shut up as well and pass along.
Great. Yeah. Nice to meet you all and Thank you very much for having me here, Chloe. And I'm Snow. I'm co-founder and CEO of Run There.
I don't think that I can introduce myself as a sales professional.
You know, I'm not the As you know, I'm not the native English speaker. I'm not a sales professional, but I definitely learned a lot from the Techstars program my uh very special cohort team members and also my mentors like eric
I learned a lot and i learned a lot adopted the lessons learned and then I'd love to share what I have learned with you guys.
So the mistake i made The first one is I think I neglected my the sales at port. I needed to focus on the sales and do more things.
Then I actually did. So there's my one uh One mistake. Another mistake is that recently several months ago, one of my team told me that, oh, snow.
I think you have two modes. One is the the customer success and the product mode. And another one is sales mode so when i change my topic and become the sales mode And I realized that it fails.
When I turned myself into the sales mode. I'm trying to sell something, my tone and uh my pitch my gestures is changed, which is not good.
Or actually for selling. So I still needed to focus on actually try to help my customer's problem instead of selling something.
Yeah, that's one of the mistakes and I'm trying to fix.
Yep.
It's all the jobs language. Love it. Thank you. Sam, welcome in. Welcome to Techstar San Francisco. It's great to have you
Yeah, thanks, Chloe. Great to be here. Nice to meet you all. I'm Sam Hege. I lead sales for late stage company called Singular and Extract and also do a little sales consulting and advising on the side. You know, I think
A couple of things that I see early stage founders and founder led sales. I think I've worked with a lot of founders on just sales process early on is understanding your pipeline and being able to qualify and disqualify opportunities quickly. I think time is your most valuable asset, no matter who you are.
And being able to understand like when a conversation is going nowhere versus, you know, your ICP or somebody that actually represents an opportunity. So I work with a lot of founders on figuring that piece out and then creating urgency and deals out of those conversations.
So yeah, excited to hear from everybody here and uh be a resource to y'all.
Awesome. Thank you. Thank you. So for the current class, we're going to use the hand raise feature on Zoom for when you want to jump in and ask a question.
Great places to start are with these lovely intros that we got or any current issues you're running into with your existing pipelines, conversion rate like your current sales processes. I know we've got some conferences coming up for some people and they have questions on how to leverage that.
But yeah, I'll hand it over.
Yeah, Alex.
Yeah. Hi, guys. I guess my question is around how much automation slash tracking we should be doing versus like you know actually selling and stuff like that are always in the middle of like, oh, I should track way more everything I'm doing have kpis conversion rate for like every steps of the process etc and they're like, oh, this is taking me so much time and like setting up CRM, setting up stuff like that.
And so my guess is like, how do you view that like as an early stage startup Just for reference like 10 clients right now.
So we have some, but it's not so many and we're focused on like building the pipeline so i'm like Do you have any thoughts on that?
I can jump in here because I was just working with a client on this. It is a balancing act, right? You've probably heard the term paralysis by analysis.
And it's tough because I think having the right data and understanding who your right ICP is, who's clicking your clicking into your emails and responding.
Is very important. What Sam said, which is something that I live by, is in sales, you want to go with win fast, lose fast.
And if you are spending so much time looking for who to talk to, when to talk to them, how to say it, all of these things, and you're not picking up the phone and calling someone and you're not actually having these meetings.
You're setting yourself up to lose slowly. As opposed to lose quickly. The hierarchy of sales goes win fast, lose fast, win slow, lose slow. And if you spend all of your time exclusively focusing on how to do sales and never actually doing the sales, you can't get enough data. So what I would say is.
Yes, absolutely. Make sure you have a CRM. The most important tool in a salesperson's toolkit is their CRM. They can make sure that they understand who they're talking to, make sure that they're following up with those people.
And understanding who the person they're talking to is. But if you're spending half of your time analyzing who you're selling to and half your time selling, you're missing out on so much time that you could be talking to salespeople
One of the big things that I like to say to my clients is if you don't meet, you don't eat.
So if you're not meeting with people, you're not going to be able to bring in those commissions and close the deals.
I would err on when you're learning, make sure you're taking notes, putting stuff in your CRM.
But don't spend all your time setting up your tools and automations. It will come and they are important, but if you spend all your time setting up your automations, you spend no time selling.
Awesome.
Thanks.
Yeah, I would just add on to that a little bit. I think Eric makes some really awesome points. I think, you know, you could run a million dollar business out of a notepad. Like you don't need all the software to optimize all conversions at all points of time.
It's more so like, what is your deal size and what's your pipeline and are you managing your time effectively to progress those deals? I think the the metrics and the conversions and the website visits to leads to deals is all important but
Unless you're doing that at scale already, you don't have to invest all of your time in optimizing that.
And it depends on your clientele and if your product led growth or if you're doing You know, more so direct sale larger deals, but that would be my two cents on that. Don't overarchitect it until it's kind of bursting at the seams unless that's your strategic advantage and you know how to do that.
Real quick before we move to the next question, what do you all use for your CRMs?
Or like what do you have any recommendations on like how to put it together for for early stage
For me, I've used them all. They are all almost the same. Early startups, I'd say HubSpot is free for a few users, so it's easy enough to just go in there.
I've had successful teams, like Sam said, using notepads and putting it on a whiteboard in the same room.
What I would say from the sales pipeline and sales process perspective is as you're thinking through how many times you have to communicate with a customer or steps you have to take to close a deal, make each of those a step in your pipeline and then make sure you're moving them along the way. So I just worked with a client that works in the healthcare space.
They have a phone call, then they have a contract and they have to meet with the people to go over the contract, sign the contract, and then initiate the deal and then win loss when, you know.
Win, right? So those are each steps. And that's how we set it up. For Carlo, that may be very different, right? You may be having a conversation with these agencies and then having a conversation with the people who need to leverage the agencies and those are two different steps, right? So what I would say is think about everything that has to happen between your
Initial outreach potentially or initial conversation or whatever all the way through what it takes to close the client and make those steps in your pipeline.
I use Excel.
Yeah, Notion. I've seen people do it amazingly well on Notion and you don't have to overarchitect it if You're only managing like 10 to 20 deals at a time.
You don't need a sophisticated system
I'd like to share my one automation I'm using is Apollo and eric uh I suggested the tool for me to me.
And I tested many other pipelines, but the best pipeline I have is that whenever new users sign up.
It comes to the Apollo and i use the automation to send out the LinkedIn Connect message.
And it works pretty well. And I just wanted to share that.
Yeah, I think if you are set on establishing a CRM, I think HubSpot, like Eric said, is great for especially early stage, the lower price point, lower entry, ease of setup. I've used Salesforce in most of my jobs, but also, you know.
Kind of series A and beyond almost always we're on Salesforce at that point.
So fix your uh amir.
I think one thing I'll just add here is Keep it simple. You're eventually going to need more complexity don't overcomplicate from the beginning.
Chloe, just want to make a note. We have one more of our guests that's joined the room. So if we want to do an intro before jumping on the next question.
Yes. Yeah, so Stephen, welcome in.
For a little quick intro, would love to hear a little bit more about your background. If you have any particular sales style and any common mistakes that you see founders make, if you've seen any, and who you're selling to.
I have two. Hello, everyone. Great to see some of my best buds on this call and many new faces.
I've been in supply chain my whole career. That started as a practitioner in the actual doing the supply chain work for athletic brands.
Footwear apparel, then moved into consulting. So services, heavily focused on services.
And now moved into software supporting supply chain. So I sell in the B2B space. So we sell into the largest enterprises with the largest networks, largest supply chains globally.
Mostly that's chief supply chain officers, but that's also EVPs, SVPs, and VPs can sign off on our deals as well.
What'd you say common mistakes that founders make So… thinking about the founders I've worked with because i'm only in small projects been a founder, but certainly not at scale um they ego sometimes gets in the way, right? Especially some of the founders I've worked closely with. They have very, very large egos.
Oftentimes it's justified, but in the eyes of a prospect, that sometimes doesn't translate well.
Sometimes it does and the confidence in their product, confidence in their company, that confidence translates really well, but other times it could really be a deterrent. And in the seller role If your CEO is sort of ego blasting your prospects, that screws up your pipeline.
So it's something to consider and it ultimately ties to reading the room, understanding the personalities of the individuals you're talking to every seat in that room, right? Because no two people are going to be the same.
And so that plays into my sales style is I think of it as How many friends, like real friends can I make within the organization And ultimately that will translate into people want to do business with their friends Therefore, all equal to ultimately a transaction.
So I try to read the room match styles.
And try to make everyone my best friend. And hopefully that results in signed paperwork at the end of the day.
Yeah, sure. Hey, guys. My question was mainly about like amount of strategies you should try and when to maybe move away from one while keeping at it.
Right now, like I'm doing just like one which is like code outreaches It's working somewhat well. But then at that point it's like I'm not saying once you've found a recipe when should you sort of move into another strategy or how many strategies should you try to handle? Because I think that's quite easy to get
Lost and trying a lot of things on a little bit and then obviously none of them work if you try a lot of things in a small batch, but then it's probably also easy to get talent division to one thing rather than like just moving on and trying something else.
So what's the balance between the two things?
Since I'm new, I could take this one. I'm not sure how we're rotating through the speakers, but I'll certainly give it my 60 seconds.
Uh… you early on do not spread yourself thin, right? Otherwise, you're going to do everything at 60, 70% and you're really not going to fully exhaust a a certain strategy and the way I'm interpreting strategy from your question is like a go-to-market motion, right? Like a white space you've identified in your market
And you're going to go capture that white space or beat out some sort of competitor in that space really do the due diligence right like don't Don't let yourself get bored.
Because if you haven't… thoroughly vetted it and you're just jumping to the next shiny object, you're going to be missing something.
So it's It's stay focused, be honest with yourself and your teams on how much you can actually take on.
My company today, we certainly have fallen to this over the last kind of nine, 12 months of just trying to do too much at once.
And jumping from topic to topic, whether that's internal process or different go-to-market motions facing shiny objects will do you a disservice.
I think fast is the opposite though like it's just taking maybe one route and going like all the way into that one and then not considering anything else.
What are the options right now?
Rather than just anything from cold outreaches to content strategies like outbound things to going to conferences to also creating our own events just because we've got a good network in that respect.
Yeah, those are the four main ones. I've just done focused on one, which is the code outreaches.
Is any of it working?
And how's that working?
By email. It's all right. Like sits around sort of a seven percent conversion rate.
No, right now, just because we started like last month to call us booked.
To paid customer.
Right now, there's about another on the paid customers I think it might go to about 3%, 4%.
It's pretty hot. I mean, I hate cold outreach, at least like the spray and pray approach. I don't know how you decide to do that. I guess I would just reframe your question and say.
What is the best route I could take to have the highest amount of conversion to a paid customer rather than just responses.
Yeah.
And once you look at that metric, I think that'll inform which strategy you end up going with. For example.
Our current outbound strategy has a 50%. Paid conversion rate.
Right. And so if you're indexing on that, then you realize, okay.
I shouldn't be spending most of my time just sending a hundred emails a day.
Because that will get me to that like North Star metric.
Instead, well, what I did was just, you know, tune it down to three or four cold outbound emails a day.
Maybe reaching out to 10 prospects a month max. And then once you really niche down there and choose a few accounts to go after and spend all of your time doing that, it seemed to work for me. But for you, you might end up
Finding something else that works.
Well, it's interesting. Thanks.
One thing you said, Carlo, it sounds like you have a network in your space.
I think, you know, like Brown said, none of us like cold outreach. I've been doing sales for 20 years. It never gets easier, but the warm leads and the connections that you have are one of your biggest assets.
So if you have a network in your space, in your client profiles.
Tap that network, ask for intros, ask even if somebody on those calls doesn't want to do business with you, ask them if they know somebody that is interested in it. And those warm leads will lead to higher conversions and better use of your time oftentimes.
Yeah, that was a good one. I had a good session with Eric on like the referrers from existing clients, stuff like that. But because we'll be to be like we have a few clients Which are good, but obviously we don't have like hundreds
And so now we've… exhaust account, the referral until I press them for more stuff.
Yeah, just adding on to what both both of those guys said i think that It's tough because if you told me that with very little refinement, you get a 3% outreach to customer rate I would say you should just be reaching out to more customers out of a hundred people you
Send emails to you get three customers that's a pretty crazy conversion rate.
If that's the case. I would say focus on that. Win fast. Send out as many emails, spray and pray, call people.
Tap into your network. But if you're saying that every person in your network you talk to, there's a like Burhan said, a 50% conversion rate, you have to understand what metrics you need to go by, where your time is spent most effectively, like Sam is saying.
And again, win fast, right? How quickly do you get to the money? How quickly do you get to give a person value by signing up as a customer, going back to helping people and helping your customer, think of it like this.
If I reach out to 100 people, three of those people end up being, you know.
Getting value from my service. Or if I talk to 10 people in my network, they introduce me to five people that will then value, you know, get value for my service. It just goes back to KPIs. What are you trying to get? What are your goals here?
What's the fastest way to conversion? Again, that 3% figure is not a small number. If you're just doing cold email outreach, that's fairly good.
I want to add something that you since you mentioned about the content uh writing So we also have attracted our customers through the content published.
And definitely it takes quite a long time. One of the methods we did is that whenever the user comes to our blog or medium or our blog post, we collect the information of the visitor.
And then reach out to them. So this this could be can be considered as a cold, but they have some intent and it was quite useful for us to do that. So I hope that please understand that content writing, the SEO, it may take some time, but definitely I'd like to recommend you to
Use some of your portion to do that. Keep doing it.
Yeah. Snow, do you do any outbound At this stage?
I can share my failure about the outbounds. And, you know, yeah, we are still trying to do that but Let me be honest, outbound sales Still, I'm struggling with that.
Awesome. Yeah, last time snow came into chat, he wasn't doing any outbound and everything like all of his sales were organic inbound through his blog and content and SEO.
Which is crazy. Okay.
Yeah, it was fortunately we have most of our customers are inbound customers, as Chloe said. And I'm so happy with that, but still there's a caveat If I cannot figure out the outbound sales and the paid marketing I cannot boost the growth.
So I'm still trying to figure out how I can do that.
Love it. Angkor, you want to jump in?
Yeah, I was curious. We kind of touched on it a little bit, but I'm curious how you guys set up metrics.
And how you guys um what's your kind of cadence for tracking stuff is um Do you guys set targets at the beginning of each week, every month and then you know, do you guys track outreaches per like every day at the end of the week, you kind of do like a big
Like look back. I've heard of a couple different methods I think we're at a point where it's very tough to be able to set specific sales targets because we're not sure we have the perfect engine yet for that. We're not
But we definitely can measure Like getting to product demos and we can measure certain parts of it.
So we want to be kind of rigorous about making sure we are putting in the work to get to that point. So sales isn't actually a good metric yet very soon. So I'm curious kind of how you guys suggest
Setting up um good habits, I guess, as far as tracking and building out targets As we move forward.
And cadence for tracking, yeah.
I'll just oversimplify one activity per day. I can guarantee you're not you're not right now hitting that minimum of one activity per day, one sales activity per day do yourself a favor and hit that first.
Before thinking about how to track and how to set up the rest.
Just do one sales activity a day For 30 days straight, and then let's talk about setting up other forms of tracking And when I say a sales activity.
I mean, a meeting, a discussion with a customer
Perhaps I'll give you some credit for an outbound message to try to prospect a customer. But in reality, you should be talking to at least one prospective customer per day.
As far as a qualified as a activities, sales activity and just be as simple as that.
I need to talk to one person a day for the next 30 days, see where my business ends up after that.
I'll give you another simple one. Granted, we're really bad at metrics.
We're about to close our next round and we still barely have sales metrics.
But what we do have is revenue. And one of the indicators we track for like health of relationship is how many of your prospects can you well, you know, maybe five years ago would have been pick up and call, but today is text.
How many people can you just text right now and say, hey, how's it going? How are we progressing on X, Y, and Z?
And so to double down on Amir's point it's How are you making small wins every day?
And then think about, well, how deep are my connections how deep arm our relationships? Can I send a very informal text message to any one of these people I'm talking to in my pipeline?
Will they respond? Will they be welcoming? Are they open to that conversation?
And so we literally measure ourselves on Well… Who have you talked to? Depending on where you're at in your lifestyle, right? Like whose kids names do you know? How many people have you texted?
And ultimately that is translated into one deals just purely based on such a simple metric.
Yeah, I think to Steve's point It used to be like 100,000 deal, $100,000 deals and up. You had to be in person to get that deal. Like you had to go visit them.
Nowadays, it's like, can you text them on the side And ask them what's going on.
And I think if that's what your deal sizes are like, that's a really important metric for you to really kind of be stress testing, understanding like are they a champion Are they willing to go to bat for you?
Will they give you their cell phone number? All that kind of stuff.
Andrew?
Oh, yeah. I wanted to circle back on something Virhan said.
You're right. You said try to do three to four really qualified uh research cold outreach in a given day and maybe 10 per month.
Yeah, I meant uh i meant For me specifically, I go after max 10 prospects a month across maybe four three or four qualified accounts.
And I think… Obviously, this is what works for me and a business like snows that does not make any sense at all.
Because the average, the ACV of like a contract really matters, right? For me, the ACV, for an average customer is upwards of 3 million.
But for some other people, it might not be the case. So I think that that framing is important.
But if the deal size is massive. For each of your customers, then why the hell are you spending time going after 100 people right now?
Right. Conversely, if the deal size is tiny, why are you spending time going after only three or four people a month?
Why aren't you going after 100 people? So I think that framing and perspective matters. But at the end of the day, I think like if I had to summarize what everyone said into like one sentence, it's more important right now to be building a relationship with an ICP.
Than it is to be tracking anything else. In fact, I wouldn't even count it as like one sales activity. It's like one relationship.
Not to discount anything Amir said, but that's just how I see it, right?
A good way of putting it is You need to come off as personable. I think a lot of people go the corporate bureaucratic route where they're like.
Hi, this is my name. This is what I do. And like, you know, this is a solution we provide. Just be yourself. Like I hop on call and I'm swearing immediately in the first five minutes.
And I'm just, you know, like shooting the shit with the customer because that's what matters more. Do they like you or do they not like you? There's a hundred different platforms have been built with, but they'll narrow it down to the people they like. And then it becomes down to who's the best solution.
And yeah, that was going to be my second question. Regarding ticket size, are you still pursuing GDM, you mentioned in your pitch which was selling to, I guess, private equity owned dental organizations.
Fuck yeah, baby.
All right. Helpful context. Thanks.
Alex?
Yeah, I wanted to come back to the wind fast, lose fast sentence because i think it's kind of important and that might be something we struggle with right we have like ed tech clients so there's like universities and stuff like that so of course it's a
Different than what you guys are talking about. But I guess my question is more like win fast, lose fast. How do you do that exactly? What are the things that makes you move faster in the towards the you know the pipeline
I think that's something to struggle with.
Yeah. Definitely. This is something that my dad has said to me since I was five years old. So it's something that's very near and dear to me.
When I think of people who are probably doing a great job at this, I think of Burhan. And Burhan, you've identified your ICP. You've gotten super niche and understand exactly who you need to call.
If you look up a client or a potential prospect and you see that this doesn't check all the boxes for me, you're probably not going to include them in the 10 people that you reach out to this month, right? If you get on a call initially and you hear some signals that don't align perfectly with your ICP, you're not going to continue to kick the can down the road and hopefully this person becomes a client down the road. They may.
No.
But if you had a team of 30 salespeople, maybe you put that on one of your 30 salespeople, right? But you are you and maybe a small team. So Alex, what I would say is if you are able to strongly identify the the
Icp that you're looking for and you understand exactly the value you bring and if you can or can't bring value to these people.
A, I would move on b If you are using rhetoric or sales tactics that slow things down.
Maybe you look at your sales process and there's 30 steps in it when it could really just be three steps or five steps. One of the biggest things that I think is the most influential change for the people that I work with.
I don't think a sales conversation, the goal of a sales conversation isn't to sign a contract. It's to schedule the next call.
The goal of a contract call is to sign a contract, right? So if you understand what your goal is going into a meeting.
And you say, hey, we just had a great call. Take a look at the contract and I'll shoot you an email.
And we'll schedule a call, right? Well, that makes your sales process at least a week longer.
Whereas if you're on the call and you say, hey, you know, we just went over this. I want to make sure you have, if you have any questions, we answer those questions. Why don't we schedule a call for Friday? If you have any questions, we'll talk over it then.
If not, we'll be good and we'll sign and we'll start onboarding.
Then what you're doing is you are setting yourself up to win fast or if the person is just being nice and getting on these calls because they like you as a person and Maybe there's an opportunity down the road
You are setting yourself up to lose fast. How many hours have you spent writing the contract, meeting with this person, thinking if they are the right ICP, if they'll get enough value from you, right?
No.
But if you're doing what Burhan's done and he's gotten his ICP down to a science.
He meets with someone and he hears, okay, this person hits all the boxes. Let's schedule a meeting for Friday.
Bam, meeting scheduled, ACV, $3 million, bam, done. Win fast. Or he gets on a call and the person says, you know, this is way too expensive for us.
We're talking to people who are doing a similar thing for a third of the price.
Not an ICP, not worth arguing over price. This is a price conversation that is never going to go anywhere. Lose fast.
Move on, put them in your CRM and maybe reach out to them in six months and see if they're really happy with a product that's a third of the price And probably a third of the value.
Yeah. Okay, thanks.
No.
Dude, it's like you know my company so well. I will add on one thing. Sorry. Just to supplement Eric's point. I think the most important or the biggest issue I see a lot of startup founders make is they'll just hop on the call and not ask what the process of the customer they're talking to.
Cause for like closing a deal And then they'll just kind of just like trudge along based on the timeline that the customer has set.
I think the most important question to ask near the end of the first meeting is like, what's your process look like? And if they're like, oh, we have to take like three months and like we have these stakeholders to talk to and like this is our this is what we need to look into to validate that this is a problem that we're having.
Just flip the script and say, you know what? Here's a bunch of research that we've done that validates the problem.
And why don't I do this? I'll just create a placeholder invite, add all the stakeholders that you just mentioned.
And let's have that call next week and just take ownership of the sales cycle instead of giving the ownership to the customer.
But yeah, that's pretty much everything.
Cool. Okay. That makes total sense. Thanks, you guys. I think one other thing is because we don't have that many revenue yet well like every clients we meet with is like potentially right like more revenue that is quite important for the company so we're not like okay let's not
You know, work with you that might be a a problem i'm guessing like a problem there's probably a balance between you nailing down your ICP, you know exactly who you're targeting with and like the other thing is like.
Okay, maybe just like talking with people, we are going to nail down the ICP, but we have to move the process along with people that might not be the perfect client for us.
It's tough, right? If you're hungry and someone has food out there, you're going to want that food. If you smell that food, you're going to do everything you can to get that food. But if you can't get in the door.
Then you're just looking through the window at that point. So what I would say is.
Don't discount anyone that checks all the boxes for you, right?
Make sure that you're communicating your value effectively and you understand, like Burhan said, I just pulled out and this is super sales nerdy of me. I have this sales process that's called the nine information objectives, right? And you need to know your clients stayed in gaps. You need to understand the relationship. You need to have commonalities with the people that you work with or the people you're selling to.
Understand their decision history with similar products, understand the alternatives to your product that you're trying to sell in.
Favorite alternatives, current product and solution, the decision criteria, and the stages and who makes those decisions, right? So those are things that, A, you need to know, and B, understand where you push value. I think, Alex, you and I talked about aspire.
Yep.
The idea of Aspire is that if you can formally or clearly explain how your product, sorry.
Impacts adherence safety and security, productivity, image, revenue, or expenses effectively.
Then you can probably convince someone that they're the right ICP. And if you have someone and you understand the nine information objectives, you understand the elements of Aspire that your product helps with, right? You're definitely helping with image, you're helping with productivity, you're helping with adherence potentially with your colleges and the students getting
The education and how to get jobs. Those are the kinds of things that if you're not communicating well, it doesn't matter how perfect of an ICP or a prospect the person you're talking to is, they may not even know
That they're a perfect prospects. What I would say is yes.
Any university probably falls into a potential bucket for you, right? It just depends how high up in your hierarchy that bucket is.
And then A, maybe it's not about them. Maybe it's about you and reflecting on how you actually communicate value and how you ask questions and understand their problem.
Something I talked to Vivian about was as you're talking to people and you're asking questions, your questions aren't just about curiosity.
It's about instilling a gap in their mind that you can then fill, right?
If you're wasting a bunch of time by telling people what they need to buy without asking them the question so they get to the answer themselves.
Then you're going to lose fast, which is good or lose slow, which is bad, but you're not going to win fast, right?
Yeah. Thanks. Thanks, Eric.
Yeah.
And I was thinking about Sam's messages here. So maybe I should say my example here, my story. So I was working with Franhofer IFM a year ago like you started like having a pilot program We made the contract. Everything was great and everyone was like highly motivated to start this pilot but then
It took a year actually and it was like very costly like thousands of dollars from their side also we spend a lot of time here as well But then we reached out again, we reconnected a few days ago and they were kind of like demotivated. Two guys who were like pushing for our solution, they left the center. It was from Hofer, IFM in Germany.
And so it took a bit of time. It took a lot of resources and many things. And then finally, so we couldn't really proceed here.
Our solution is regarding like AI automation for manufacturing. So the pilot would need to spend a little bit of time and also money like usually it's about like 20 30 000 of dollars And this is the actually the sales funnel we were thinking like for Optifine, like starting from prospect, having pilot programs. And I think Sam's point is also wonderful here. So if really we should have a pilot here
We were thinking that maybe at this stage probably pilot would be necessary for us because usually these companies are looking for proof of concept like there's some cases to do some successful results here And we thought maybe we can define something together. But maybe in the later stages, probably we should just escape like pilots
At some point and we don't really need to have pilots like maybe in two three years But I'm just curious of what we should do like at this stage to have everyone like motivated for our solution everything like very fast.
Yeah, what are your current customers and do you have any case studies that you can sell with?
So we have… One case study right now, we were hoping that with this front hofer, we would make something very unique here because this is a wonderful center like everyone knows that center around the world.
So we are making something on our own basically these days, just to show the capability of the software.
Yeah, I think, you know, my approach to this is skip pilots whenever you can, right? Pilots are are a lot of time and investment and you might walk away with no deal. And you guys spent a year on this customer and
No.
Both sides put a lot of money and time into it. And then, you know, at the end of it, it sounds like it didn't work out and that It happens to everybody. You're not alone in that. It happens a lot.
And having the right qualifications early and the right signs and the right executive buy-in can help reduce the amount of losses that you have on those pilots. The other thing that I really do is stress the success criteria.
What is it that we need to deliver during this pilot period that define success for you and that you're willing to pay for our service.
And putting that actually into the contract and then legally obligating them if I deliver on these things you will start paying. So I think it's one way to to limit these things where like your champion leaves, you don't have executive buy-in anymore.
If it's in the contract and both sides are working towards a well-defined goal.
You're going to have a lot more success and a lot less churn on those pilots. The other thing is, can you shorten that pilot? Can you reduce the scope? So I work with companies, you know, the scope could be 100 items long, but if you can get it boiled down to like.
Two to three things say we're going to deliver on this and then we'll deliver on those other 97 things later on in the agreement.
It can help you save a lot of time, but still prove out your point that you're capable of what you say you're doing.
So use case studies, use examples, use references to try to sell deals without pilots if you can. If you have to do pilots.
Really tighten it up, stress test it, make sure you get executive buy-in on the client side before you go and invest all that time.
Understanding like, hey, who do you need to sign off on this budget? And are they aware of the details of this success criteria in this pilot period?
And then… It happens all the time. Your champion leaves or your executive buyer leaves. So being multi-threaded.
Having you know three to five people within the account that are all bought in on this that can help you get back on the tracks if somebody leaves.
Thank you so much.
Just to quickly add to that. The time to get three to five internal champions is not when you got the email that your champion is leaving, by the way.
Someone else.
So be sure that you're being conscious when you have a good champion don't stop with just one because if they go like what's happening to you. It's a high risk and so I just want to overemphasize this because all of you now have
Good irons in the fire with specific companies that are reaching out to you.
What happens if that one person that you have been communicating with the last three, five months leaves?
Do you have the second, third, fourth touch point inside that enterprise? The enterprise will continue to move on.
If you are if you are future, if your future as a service provider is is cut off because any one buyer and any one individual leaves that company then it wasn't a deep enough pain you were solving for the company.
So.
At what stage should they be looking for those additional connections in the org? Is this like after the first meeting, they're like, who.
They should ask who else they can meet.
Absolutely. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Especially with an enterprise buyer even with you know, a SMB though the question, who else, you know, I'd be happy to talk with someone else in your team. Who else should I run this past?
One thing that often, like I didn't know about when I got into enterprise sales was simply our company needed to have vendor approval by procurement to get a deal done.
And this might surprise some of you. I see some heads nodding but like If you're talking with an enterprise company and you haven't reached that stage.
All of what you've been discussing can't be executed on.
The company has a strict policy on the way they procure, bring on service providers and And so if you're talking to a company that's, you know.
Fortune 500, Fortune 1000, it's very highly likely even companies that aren't in the Fortune 1000 sort of have that. But that's a simple question.
Do I, before we continue, are there any steps that I need to consider to have to be an approved vendor Do I need to speak with someone on your procurement team to be an approved vendor?
So hope that helps.
Thank you very much.
That will certainly sabotage your timeline. Because they operate on their own timelines. The common one these days is AI Review Board.
I'm sure many of your products have, at least whether it's marketing or real AI, it will go through an AI review board. They most likely meet once a month.
You're trying to close the deal by March 31st. Well, the next AI review board isn't until April 17. So you're screwed.
Because they won't approve anything until it goes through that board.
So that conversation has to happen 60 days in advance So that you can hit their cadence.
It goes back to someone mentioned it, but like your clothes plan or your uh how do we get this deal done plan, whatever you want to call it? But those steps should certainly be included in getting the signature.
So can I ask a question on that one before we jump to the next topic?
Thank you so much.
Okay, so I have like one of my customers that it's a public company and like right now I've been They said, yes, we're in like two months ago. Right. And then, you know, we met in person. He's like, yeah, I'm going to try to get this contract done by the end of the week. And that was six weeks ago. Right. And so then we had to go through, you know, we're, we're in the slip phase, right? The legal IT procurement phase.
And, you know. We were stuck with the CISO for a while, right? And then finally, I was asking the um So I was cc'd on a thread with their team and I asked them like, hey, who's working on this? And I followed with that guy.
And then I followed up with, they said that it had been passed up to the data privacy team. So I just like looked up her number on the cold calling database.
And I called her and I was like, hey, Kelly, my name's Meg. I wanted to reach out. We're a small team. Do you have anything that like you need from me? I'm trying to push this deal along because I don't want it to just fall out. Anyways, they got mad at me. So they're like, you should only go through me. But the thing is, it's not moving
Like at all really you know like right now I know it's with legal, but they don't want me to reach out to legal. So how am I supposed to keep it pushing forward through my champion.
The common problem And I would be more upset if you weren't getting yelled at.
That's good. Okay.
That's part of the game. Yeah, you'll get your hand slapped.
I mean, in some cases going direct to legal is maybe legal a bit maybe a line too far, but going direct to procurement, going direct to that IT person.
Because they don't have your priorities, right? And nor do they have your champions priorities, right? They're often shared service centralized teams, especially if it's a global enterprise, they're moving at their own cadence, their own pace To give you one example i was
Working to get a deal closed last quarter And I had a global head of procurement, very senior procurement person who had to get this contract done.
He sent us a note, including our CEO, that said. Essentially like you guys are driving me nuts. Don't send me a single other message. Like your contract will get done by end of day.
Okay.
It technically got done at 1 a.m. My time, which satisfied our requirements to close within the quarter in the time zone we needed but We celebrated that. We're like well that head of procurement maybe will close three contracts on this day.
Better believe that one of our contracts will be one of those three.
And if they're not Go ahead.
So did you… Did you email him or did you add him like message him on LinkedIn? What were you doing to get like, you know.
So I had a relationship with them. So this deal was set to close March 31st.
I know the dates because I was just looking at it pretty closely. It was third week of January, I set up a weekly call with the head of procurement.
And said, here's our closed plan. This is what I'm marching against. He said, I agree.
These are the in-between steps to get to an ultimate deadline of March 31st. And we met every single it still came down to almost the last minute of the quarter.
To get the deal done. Back to investing in these relationships early I knew him super, you know, the next time I'm in Luxembourg, I'm going to meet up with this guy, right? Like we've become friends in this process.
Yeah.
If I would have pinged him the last week of the quarter and he'd be like, wait, we talked in January? Why do I, I don't know you.
Deal would have been dead for that quarter So it's investing in those relationships early I've established whatsapp with him, teams chat with him, email.
All the channels, multi-threaded and did it 60, 90 days in advance of the ultimate deadline.
Yeah. Do any of you guys ever just like apply to be a vendor for like these big companies before you even have an internal champion just to start like, hey, now we're already approved vendor.
To make it easy to work with them.
In my experience, you're really going to need somebody asking you to get into that approved vendor program so Yeah, like I've done Ariba, SAP, Microsoft has their own thing, all these big Fortune 100s have their own kind of vendor management.
Portfolio. But in order to get that, you're not just going to be able to cold apply typically.
You might be able to work through somebody like vendor.com where like they kind of help bring people in but In my experience, it's more a waste of your time unless you have a champion and a business owner that wants you in that program because there's just so many steps along the way to get into it and like
Things like Infosec, if you're selling software, you're going to have to go through all that and have somebody vouch for you.
Yeah.
Yeah, going, going, oh, sorry. Go ahead, Sam.
I was going to say the thing of kind of like stepping on toes that you first asked about, Meg, I think it happens a lot. And, you know, like Steve said, I think If you can build the relationship early, that's fantastic. If you need to reach out to that person.
Do it in your most friendly way and just like try to try to bring positivity to it. These procurement people have a tough job. They have to deal with negativity all the time and they say no a lot. So the more kind of positivity you can bring into it.
The better. And then if you have multiple people on your team, also distributing some of that tension can also help.
So like if you have a junior person that maybe they reach out to that legal or procurement person that can kind of distribute and you're like, oh, I'm so sorry that like.
You know we reached out to them out of turn, out of line can help because you definitely want to get in front of that person it's just tactically, how do you do it without pissing everybody off It's an art.
Yeah. Actually, I like your idea of having a junior person. That's a really good one.
And sorry, Encore for jumping you.
On Sam's point, though, on the junior person, that junior person doesn't need to be real.
I have a junior person. His name is Jake. Jake is me.
Exactly.
I do want to give a
I am so glad you brought that up, Erhan. I think Burhan is not a traditional name in the Western world. Amir is not a traditional name in the Western world.
If you have a challenging name. Your cold emails are not going to perform as well as a traditional Western name in the US market.
Yep.
I'm sorry, it's just not the reality it's the reality. I've tested it a hundred times over it just over And so creating these avatar team members is a great strategy to deploy in early sales, especially if you have a non-traditional, non-Western name
And you're doing outreach via that you know via that by that email handle that.
Alias, yeah.
Channel so
Yeah, I blame my finance team all the time for when I can't offer things and I never talk to them.
Yep. Yep.
About that deal you know half the time It's… It's just really distribution of the tension that you want so that you're not always the no person.
So if you have a CFO or a co-founder, be like, oh, you know, I have to check with my co-founder about that or Like I need to get their approval on this.
Good cup, bad cup that's sort of the dynamic you guys can research good bad cop theory But one thing, you know, it goes back to relationship, establishing a common villain. Ideally, the common villain is like the culprit of the problem for the enterprise.
Or the villain is the competitor that is not meeting their expectations and the service that you're going to potentially offer better. So establishing a common villain, right?
And sometimes that villain can be an internal company villain where finance isn't approving the pricing that the company is asking for. And so, you know.
Establishing a common villain tends to help extend a relationship to an informal aligned stance, even if it's, like I said, internal villain.
Love it. Ankra.
This might be I'm not sure if this is the right place.
Maybe move it offline if anyone's more interested in helping with like more like tactical form of email. So I'm curious, Andrew and I got in the minor debate about kind of length and structure of emails during sales. And so generally um
Andrew's doing kind of the first and he's CRO. He focuses on initial contact. I mean, I do too, but it's just our split is I do more product stuff so I generally come in a little bit later and like we'll usually send an email for
Recapped meeting notes, kind of next point action items um And I think like there's, there's a bit of a question of, okay, what is a question too long and we're scaring people off and giving people homework to do. And then what is the other side of like, hey.
If you don't send enough detail I know that in any meeting I get frustrated if I said we talked about a bunch of stuff and I don't get a response saying.
Here are the things we talked about. Here's like the things, the actual action items, and it's just missing stuff. I'm like, hey, you just didn't listen.
So there's a little, I'm trying to figure out like, hey, what's too much homework And what shows that you didn't listen.
And maybe a balance, how to balance kind of outreach after, again, this is post first meeting post kind of either a demo or a discovery call kind of thing where there were necessary action items like, hey, there were things we talked about moving forward with.
This is going to be kind of a BS answer, and I know that but The big thing I tell a lot of the people I work with is how long is too long for emails that you receive?
How much is too much for you to look at an email and say, I'll look at this later and then never get to it?
One of the things that I like to do sometimes if I know it's going to be a long email is I do a super quick summary at the top, like TLDR, but do it at the beginning.
I know a lot of the people probably won't read the entire email. Sometimes I know some of my clients will take a long email that they receive and throw it into Gemini or GPT And say, summarize this. And if I can just do that for them, then they don't need to spend any extra time
Looking through understanding if there are next steps that need to be taken I lead with that. Like, hey, this is what needs to get done. Here's the TLDR. And then here's the long format if you really need it.
Sometimes, though, what I like to do is I tell my clients, look, before you send a really long email, go have a snack.
And then come back and read the email and think if that's really what you need to say if it's necessary and you end up the same thing when it comes to being angry at someone or being upset that someone told you something that's not true, or maybe you said it on a call and you write a really mean email, go have a snack, go get a drink of water and come back and then you'll probably realize the email doesn't need to be this angry or doesn't need to be this long, right?
So first thing I'd say is summarize it, make it short as possible. If you need to make a long email.
Put it in the bottom, but you can always, I like bullet points. I'm a big bullet point fan. I had a boss that hated that I used bullet points, but everyone who got my email said, thank you so much. I no longer have to read Spencer's books every time he sends out an email.
There's six bullet points. These are the six things I need to care about. End of story.
Almost certainly it's too long. If you think it's your email's too long.
Your emails just All right. It's shorter, shorter, shorter.
I don't think it's too long. That's the difference. Like, yeah, I mean… It's like three bullet points. And then I was told I was giving them homework. Yeah, three bullets.
I'll show you.
That's it. I'm sure you had mutual agreement at the end of the call, right? This kind of goes to don't end a call.
Unless you have the next meeting scheduled. Sometimes that's tough, but your goal should be like we have clear action, clear time when we're all getting back together.
Because otherwise you're going to be chasing each other on email and phone calls afterwards.
The other thing we My company is fully adopted is Note Takers, AI note takers We use it in every single meeting, internal, external always and forever. We've had one customer tell us not to out of all of our customers. So it's been really successful.
And that's if they want an in-depth review, watch the recording, read the summary In your email you put the clear two or three items that need to be need to happen.
Whether it's on the prospect side or your own side. Whether they need to get you the NDA or you need to send the NDA, whatever it is.
The long form can come in the recording. And then you don't have to waste your time trying to write it out.
Awesome. Anthony?
Thanks. So we are in the real estate tech space and we sell to realtors and lenders So far we've been reaching out to individual realtors and lenders how do we like at what point do you think It's good for us to start reaching to sort of the national
Mortgage brokers or like bigger enterprise customers at what point in the process Would we have enough like credibility to go after those like to spam some of them on LinkedIn.
I don't think you need any credibility. Sorry, go for it.
Who spoke?
I have a… No, I was going to say, I have a cautionary tale about a very similar thing. Very quickly for a company I used to work with that was an outsourced accounting firm.
We found a potential need working with Remaxes, which is, you know, those are in your space, right?
And our VP of sales got an entire team focused on remaxes. We did an entire marketing campaign on Remaxes going back to the vendor question. We got approved as a vendor before ever talking to the corporate RE-MAX. Remax is all franchised.
And then once we started reaching out to actual Remaxes, none of them gave a damn about what we were saying. So what I would say is, you know, to Burhan's point, you don't need credibility, you know, test the waters, see if they care, see if there's a need, see if they fit your ICP.
It is, you know, your enterprises are going to be bigger bigger contracts. So there's reward there. There's also a lot of them, right? So make sure that you're narrowing them down, qualifying, understanding your messaging.
And doing all these salesy things that you need to do when it comes to tactical work.
But do it. Just go do it, right? Talk to these people. The value should be the same or if not more for them than it is for the little guys.
There's… The big thing it always comes back to is always Go do it, right? Go meet with these people and make sure that you are seeing if there is value for them. If there is great. I think, Anthony, we talked about it.
Those are the decision makers that you need to get on board to actually get to the money you guys are trying to make. So are you wasting your time with the people you're talking to now? If the answer is no, then I don't know, but it seems like sometimes
You want to start really low when your value is actually for this other group and that's your actual ICP.
Thanks, Eric. I know Burhan wanted to say something too earlier.
So.
Oh, I think Eric covered it. You don't need any credibility. I guess my only last point would be that there's two types of companies. There's companies that build for small customers and there's companies that build for large customers.
And I think the question to ask yourself before you even start reaching out to any customers is what kind of company do you want to be? Do you want to serve the SMBs Are you going to serve the enterprises? Because that's a whole different product. You think you're solving the same problem, but you're not.
You think your product's going to end up being the same, but it's not.
And ask yourself that question early on is helpful because it'll direct the roadmap for the next like two, three years.
When I looked at myself in the mirror and asked that question, I said, I wanted to serve the enterprises and we built our entire product around that. Now, if we go sell it to SMBs.
They're going to hate it.
Got it. Thank you.
Hi, so I'm Vivian. I'm CEO of Mayor Making Auto Easy. So for those who don't know what my business is, it's a platform, it's a sales enablement tool that matches customers to the right vehicles in dealerships.
And it helps them sell more and sell faster. So my current customers right now, I've all gone from drop-ins at the dealership and the strategy is piloting further one store before getting to the rest of them.
And that's a future question I have for Burhana, but how to get into those really large ones because for those ones, they don't want to do it unless everybody's on it.
But right now I'm finally like ready to start selling again. What I currently am planning on doing is I'm targeting 30 people in my network to book 10 demos. I'm spending a day going back into dealerships. My goal is to get to three conversations. They usually end up being an hour each. I have a pretty specific ICP based on what I've learned from my current customers.
And I'm going to target them by going to their websites and looking at how much inventory they have. I can kind of tell based on like.
Persona and the size of the team and how young they are. And I'm also going to be doing 10 calls a day. And then I have five specific qualification questions. And then if they say yes, I'm going to go for the demo. And if they say no, I'm still going to give them demo for when it's more relevant.
So I guess one, if you have any feedback on that, but also I have a question about advice or like what you've learned about selling the vision of where your product could be.
I feel like my customers are very progressive. They're younger, they're hungry. And that's part of my SCP right now. But I know that as I'm going to do more dealership visits and talking to more people, most Not most, but like a lot of them are going to be less progressive
And I know I'm going to build that into my qualification questions for like my ICP, but wondering if you have any advice on how to get your prospects to buy in without having to go so far into like this bigger vision.
We should definitely have a call off this call. You just asked a very letter question. Here's my calendar link.
Will do.
I think something that I just… just want to mention is like You said, how can I get someone to buy into my vision And I think that's actually the wrong question.
And because for the buyer, for this person that's an employee like buying into your version is not the most important thing in their world. And so, you know, getting a promotion 2xing their bonus or commission that's that's important to them.
And so how What you really need to my kind of crude way to reframe this is like How does your vision make their life better?
That's really key. And what is it that's going to make their life better is really the nugget, the golden nugget of information that you want to take away from a first interaction or a conversation.
Is it a promotion? Is it more time um So that they can do different strategic work, different, you know, higher value tasks.
But I think just reframing that question before you go out to the market could make your time in market more productive.
This is the most important, I realize for all founders, this is challenging, right?
This business is the most important thing in your world. Even outside of your world like to your friends and family that are immediately around you, it's also super important for them.
But when you go out into the wild. Yes, there's going to be some people that are more compassionate and optimistic and want to support entrepreneurs.
But in the reality, most people, it's not the most important thing for them and It's actually a chore, not a delight.
To support you and buy into your vision.
Yeah, I would echo that. You mentioned these calls are hours long. I would also, you know.
Encourage you to consider which of those should truly be an hour long because you want to find the people that have a problem that you're solving for in the first like 20 minutes you should know you should know of a call, whether or not they have that problem that you can solve for. And if they don't or their business doesn't like
Close it down, move on to the next one. And try to make a friend so that when they they do have that or they're They know somebody that has that problem.
That they can help you out or introduce you. But you got to move on fast.
Win fast, lose fast, like Eric says.
And Vivian, you are literally building a sales enablement product, right? So if you were to ever book an hour meeting with someone and you do that meeting in 30 minutes and you get all the information.
Let me enable you to have a half hour pack in your day because we got through all the information that I needed. So you're unlocking time for them. It's almost like a symbol of the way you're going to unlock free time for them the way your product is going to do it. You literally just did it in this one hour meeting by shrinking it to 30 minutes.
And so just finding playful ways to sort of demonstrate the value of your product even as simple as by cutting a meeting in half and saying, I'm giving you back your time the same way my product will You know, in helping so
I think for context, like I always, what I did was like I walk in and I asked for 10 minutes of their time because I'm trying to ask them some questions about their business And then asking more questions. They like to talk about their challenges and what they're good at and what they're not.
So it ends up being an hour every single time, even though I only ask for 10, 15 minutes.
But because the complex, like the problem is so complex, sometimes like their specific problem, I can work back to like our solution does solve that but if like that doesn't necessarily come up in the first 10 15 minutes And sometimes like that conversation goes on and then I can find the work back to our problem. And then I show them the demo and then it works out for them.
So I guess that's part of the overall vision of what we can do. And sometimes it's like the phase two of what we're building that's really important to them.
And yeah, so I guess that's I would love to be able to, and I'm trying to figure that out. What are those five questions? And I think I've narrowed them down now to be able to know really quickly if I can get them, if I like rather than having an hour conversation.
Can I get those answers in the first five questions?
Yeah.
And by the way, that's a great signal. When a prospect goes over calendar and promises you 30, but gives you an hour or promises you 10, but gives you an hour. That's kudos. Great signal.
You want to make sure that it's for the right reasons and not just because you know they're trying to punch the clock and kill parts of their day because for you that's not the right reason.
So I could see why you want to front load that. But remember, you're selling to people that it's a relationship business in the car business and so There's some element like you don't want to front load all the buying questions right off the beginning but
I think your head's in the right space here. So hope that
Yeah.
Yeah, and walking around a dealership, I mean, they're salespeople trying to sell you cars, right? So that you don't want to get trapped in that either where they're just like trying to build a pipeline out of you into their car sales, which I don't know exactly if that's happening, but if I ever walk onto a car dealership, they'll talk to me for three hours because they don't want me to stay on that lot.
Yeah, I think my biggest takeaway from this conversation is to be able to eliminate those people really quickly.
And not waste my time. So that's helpful. Thank you.
And I think like, do they have budget for tools is something I would want to know about every dealership. Like some dealerships, like I said, they could run a million dollar business out of notepad. And I'm sure that they do. So kind of understanding, trying to get some sort of
Early indicators. In those conversations, I think could help a lot.
Thank you.
Yeah, thanks, everyone. Sorry for my i'm in a car, so apologies if there's a little bit of noise in the background.
But I sell right now to small, medium sized law firms and we're right now, we have a prototype that we're about to release And we want to get pilots to kind of start working on it. Our vision is to start getting paid pilots
And potentially like paid potential customers in the future I wanted to know one question I have is like.
What are the conversations like to lead up to like getting them on a call? How much of that do you need to communicate them that you're still in build mode?
Rather than actually like have a product that's ready that could be actually like sold. I'm curious to know what's the conversation like? Is there anything that needs to be said?
And then, yeah, and then secondly, when you're on those calls Yeah, it's like… What is it that, I guess I'll start with the first question and then we'll start there.
I go back and forth with my co-founder on this and in very short, I think if you don't have a product to sell, you don't have value to sell and you're doing product research and market research.
Not sales. You can be building pipeline. No issue there but You can't tell people that you can provide value if you can't.
So think of those more as pipeline opportunities and market research opportunities than they are sales. That's the short version. My co-founder would say, be comfortable selling nothing.
But as someone who has sold things my entire life and sold value, it's tough for me to get over selling nothing, right? You have to be able to at least convey that you will be able to sell value.
If you're building towards it, great. If you have a timeline for when you can convert, great.
But if you are still talking to people, if they would be interested, when you can do this, that's pipeline building and market research and not necessarily sales.
Yeah, we just recently launched a new product. So we've gone through this as a late stage company, kind of going through this all over again. I think it's understanding where the product is going and what your timelines are, and then being able to sell towards that timeline. So you don't want to sell yourself into a hole where you can't deliver on what you're talking about.
But you want to build pipelines so that when the product's ready in July, that you've got five customers lined up to be paying you on day one.
So I think it's a It's a gentle balance of how do you align their timelines with your delivery timeline and You know, try to stay within that that wheelhouse.
For me, I also have a pilot program from time to time with some little bit bigger companies and then uh So we talked about this. So we need to define clear goals during the pilot program. And first of all.
From the product guide perspective, we need to think about if it is a scalable, if we can adopt this feature scale this feature, support this feature for the other customers too.
And then if it is aligned. I personally discussed with my customers.
So that how it is important. And if it is important for them, actually.
I charge more. I charge more of them. And then align our goals and try my best to deliver it within the time.
Within the pilot program.
Awesome.
I think there's an integrity component to this question, right? You know, you don't want to over promise and not deliver at all. There's a difference between over promising and under delivering and over promising and not delivering at all.
And so there's an integrity piece at play and i think there's a component of like you have to, you know, talk about the customer's pain points and assign a value to it. If I solve this problem for you, what is it worth to you? If I buy back five hours of your day, what is it worth to you? What is your hourly rate?
These quantitative things that you can do but But you don't want to be talking about a product that isn't even being properly scoped and can't be delivered in a reasonable amount of time. And part of it could be if
You know when you're asking these questions to buyer, if I solve this problem, what is it worth to you? What is your timeline? If I could solve this for you in three months, does that change your the way you would assign a budget to this versus in six months versus in
One day, if I solve this for you tomorrow. What does that mean for your business?
But I like the way Eric positioned research versus true sales. So think about that.
Um but So hope that's helpful.
Yeah, another thing that might be helpful is we have design partners. So it's like are they Are they invested in this? Are they helping actually form what your roadmap is because they're such a qualified client that they're willing to pay for it. And maybe they're even willing to pay for some of it before the product is delivered.
As a form of investment in the partnership because you're delivering on exactly what they asked for.
And I think there's ways that you can you kind of use that to your advantage If they're asking for something that's maybe outside your roadmap, they pay a little extra and you deliver on that.
Then you know they're committed because they're, you know, they're paying ahead of time.
And part of this can be gotten out. Have you ever worked with a technology or a service provider to add a feature to their company and to their service offering for you guys. Were you guys ever a part of that build process or is that too uncomfortable for you? And do you guys only procure products that are established
Long-term tested debugged by other customers. Do you sort of put that bowl into their court and and then that really helps you form a solid date for when you should get back to that person. Is this person willing to build alongside you or is this a person that I should
Not even consider for the next six months. At all. These sort of simple informal questions can speak a lot.
Awesome. Really quick, do you have This is kind of a me question based on Chris's situation. When do you guys switch between the language of a pilot versus a trial? Like how big does the org have to be?
Do you have any specifics there?
I actually use them kind of interchangeably. I think a pilot oftentimes is a little bit more formal in my mind like uh if I like to use proof of concept. If it's a big organization, they typically kind of lean towards proof of concept. If it's like a low lift.
Entry point. I'll use trial and then pilots kind of in between for me But I think everybody has a little bit of a different
We've been a POC for a while. We're now switching to POV is what we want to focus on because we think the concept and the capabilities of our product are easy to prove and it's But we want to now prove value.
That's what we're going to focus on. And trial is very specific in our world where That's literally like a community license where they log into the platform and use it at their own We have guided tutorials, trainings, right? So a trial is purely like
I'll set you up for 30 days. Do whatever you want in the platform.
We'll have zero near zero investment on our side and what you're doing.
And then we also use something called a custom demo And that's our way of trying to avoid a POC, as we talked about earlier, these are high investment motions. So a custom demo is we'll take some of their data
Make an industry specific, make it nearly focused on their business, but still agnostic enough. So it's a much more reduced investment on our side.
Awesome. Thank you so much. I know we're at time. If you need to jump.
Please do so. Really, really appreciate it. And for our lovely panel people, are we good with me sharing emails?
For follow-ups? Beautiful. Thank you.
Awesome. Happy hunting. Thanks, Saul.
Really appreciate it.
Thank you all. Bye.
Smile and dial. Smile and dial, everybody. Have fun. Bye-bye.
Thank you.
Thank you, guys.
Yeah. Hell yeah.